this is the sort of video that I would
love to do with Chinese subtitles
Chinese translation to be bilingual to
some extent there are a couple of topics
I like to make videos on right now that
I'd love to do bilingual Chinese in
English and I do not have time I'm
really busy right now preparing for the
next chapter of my life in various ways
a lot of our time and energy is going to
travel and making plans to the future um
but the Chinese language takes
absolutely as much time as I have to to
give it it will absorb every minute in
every hour I can dedicate to it I'm both
studying Chinese myself as a student and
I'm really engaged in being a teacher
for my girlfriend learning Chinese and
teaching her Chinese from level one and
working up it's really good for me also
both in reviewing the fundamentals of
the language and it also is an
opportunity for me to relearn written
Chinese to some extent relearning spoken
Chinese with special reference to Taiwan
because the writing system for Taiwan is
significantly different and some of the
vocabulary for Taiwan is significantly
different so I am in many ways having to
relearn the basics in Chinese myself and
three hours can go by in the blink of an
eye study girl learning Chinese
but the issue I want to address here
even if only 10 15 20 Chinese people
were to see this video I really would
like to reach out to a Chinese audience
and address it for the following reason
I had a professor at University of
Victoria I still know him I still chat
with him a little bit my girlfriend I
he's the guy we met in the restaurant we
were actually in a Chinese restaurant he
was there with his wife and I made fun
of him I said no you're a professor in
the Department of Japanese studies but
here you are secretly at a at a vegan
Chinese restaurant ah anyway so he and I
get along back when he and I were first
getting to know each other he had a
particular presentation in class a
particular lesson and so he's a
specialist in Japan but this lesson was
on the political history of China and he
was presenting the history of China's
interactions with Europe purely in terms
of colonialism and the humiliation
that China endured at the hands of
European colonial powers during a period
of I don't know about three centuries I
guess
all told and of course he was I mean he
is not a communist he's not consciously
performing or presenting communist
propaganda but really the version of
history is presenting it very much is
the Communist Party of China's version
of of China's history where this is a
dramatic tale of humiliation and then
national Redemption and this is
symbolized and demonstrated with the
British opium war the idea that England
was humiliating and breaking the power
of China that China became a nation of
opium addicts and then they overcame the
drug addiction and overcame the British
Empire and kicked out the Europeans and
they were you know we're degenerated
morally regenerated nationally
regenerated by this by the experience he
this professor and I we really did get
along well enough that I could interrupt
him a little bit in class so I just say
that's very unusual where you're not
putting up your hand but you're having a
little bit of banter having a little bit
of back and forth with the professor and
while he was telling this tale I just
pointed out to him at several key points
the contrast between the national
experience of China and the experience
of India and then the experience of
quote-unquote Indians here in Canada so
again this is not Socratic method but
it's I don't know it's it's similar to
the ideals of Socratic method in that I
was being provocative and challenging to
his assumptions so he would mention a a
quote-unquote humiliating treaty that
was signed between the emperor of China
and one Western power or another there
were several of these these treaties the
British are normally shown as the
villains but of course they were not the
only European power that we're not the
only Western power involve the United
States also gets involved eventually in
the kind of colonial enterprises in
China and I just asked him in what
language was that treaty
it wasn't Chinese right the native
people here in Canada here in British
Columbia they didn't have treaties
written in their language did they and
it really struck him this kind of thing
being pointed out um you know I was
challenging the notion that China had
suffered exceptionally that they've been
treated exceptionally poorly that they'd
been humiliated by European colonialism
and I was pointing out the extent to
which they were actually treated with
extraordinary respect and distinction
compared to native people in Africa
native people in Australia native people
here in Canada or even the native
population of of India
and that would point out again at these
various points of so-called humiliation
and redemption you know history of China
and you know again he not folding but he
was really using these loaded terms like
humiliation repeatedly and I'd say yes
but they did meet with the Emperor they
did recognize him as you know the
sovereign authority in China right they
recognized him as the legitimate
government government of China in this
so-called humiliating set of
negotiations you know right of course
this is true the British is true the
French again it's not any one colonial
power the Germans Believe It or Not also
then with various colonial powers that
came over to this and I asked them in
this period of time in the same year is
there anyone that they recognize as the
Emperor of India is there anyone that
they recognize as the Emperor of any
part of Africa South America the
Caribbean Ontario British Columbia none
of none of these people did they
recognize as having a sovereign leader
as Havering as having sovereignty as
having the right to exist permanently in
their own territory now I raised this
for a number of reasons
the most immediate being that somebody
said
me a comment I get comments like this
from time to time sometimes very hostile
sometimes I don't know a little bit more
value neutral but I received a comment
not for the first time demanding to know
what is the alternative to genocide that
I'm proposing or supposing am i
imagining a parallel universe in which
native people of North America just
developed their own civilization with no
contact from Europeans with no predation
from Europeans but no no war or what
have you or the Cree in each giveaway I
just went on to kind of build their own
cities and develop their own technology
or what have you
now I do think it's worthwhile to point
out in a sense how impossible that is
that if Christopher Columbus had not
come to North America
somebody else would have soon enough
whether they arrived from the east of
the West so to speak whether they
arrived from Spain or from England or
from France somebody would have
initiated shall we say the cultural
exchange between these these continents
on an ever intensifying scale it's true
that would have happened and you can say
the same about the colonial experience
in China Africa and elsewhere but this
still leaves open many important
questions the discourse about China
tends to present the British annexation
of Hong Kong as tremendously humiliating
to China's natural national pride
sovereignty etc that this small island
that was of no importance before the
British took it over by the way by the
way it wasn't an urban center or
something that they built this
tremendous urban center there but it was
a nearly empty island with a few
fishermen's villages on it and so on I
have by the way have formally studied
that history back when I lived in Hong
Kong and I've also visited the museums
that tell the history but it wasn't
completely uninhabited but it was a
place of no importance and there's an
interesting history for why that is but
was basically a barren island of no
importance that the British were given
in this in this trade agreement to
become British sovereign territory for a
limited number of years and this is
presented as a terrible humiliation and
blah
to the people of China the the people of
Hong Kong were Chinese
they continued speaking Chinese
languages Chinese people ethnically and
speaking various indigenous languages
continued to be the majority population
of Hong Kong they continued to have road
signs in Chinese and schools in Chinese
and police stations where the police
spoke Chinese even though in theory
English was the the sovereign language
and the laws and so on of the governor
there was a level of government there
was a level of governance that was
conducted in in English and ultimately
Hong Kong was under under British
sovereignty do you know anywhere
anywhere in Canada do you know anywhere
in the United States where where this
allegedly humiliating example could
could be matched in terms of the status
of of indigenous people where under
European colonialism you know an island
like Manhattan continued to be majority
indigenous people speaking an indigenous
language while trading with in dealing
with you know Europeans as as sovereigns
Europeans as an entrepeneur engaged in
in trade and so on so the most
humiliating the the low mark for how
badly China was treated by European
colonialism is better it's infinitely
better than the way indigenous people
were treated in Canada Australia South
America the Caribbean etc and
indefinitely most of Africa admit Africa
is a bit of a mixed bag in terms the
history colonialism but so there are
there are some relatively positive and
an astoundingly negative examples of how
you know European colonists treat
indigenous people in the history of
Africa and this of course partly just
has to do with the remoteness of some
parts of Africa in contrast to coasts
where they were engaged in slave trading
so on and so forth so is there
a parallel universe in which the
indigenous people of Canada had their
own kings or Emperor's or
representatives or government in which
they continued to exist even if they
were subordinated by European trading
powers and empires to the same extent
that the the people of China were my
point being that you could you don't
have to work within a set of idealized
and impossible to attain examples to
think of a better world in which there
was a better deal for the criative way
the mohawks etc etc you could actually
just look at other examples of the same
Empire in the same real world the
British Empire was the same Empire in
Canada and Quebec as it was in Hong Kong
there is a parallel case to be to be
begged there's a case to be thought
through why couldn't the British Empire
treat other nationalities of people as
as badly as they treated the Chinese
which we can flip around and say why
couldn't they have treated them as well
as they treated the Chinese even when
they were treating the Chinese at the
their absolute worst in a manner that
the Chinese themselves look back on with
resentment as as humiliation now I think
I have to invert this question and
briefly ask the opposite why is it today
that the majority of the population of
Mexico is either of European ancestry or
of Missy Stowe ancestry Missy Stowe
meaning partly European partly
indigenous why is it that the native
languages of Mexico have generally been
wiped out or exist in the form of just a
few lone words a few words here and they
are adopted into into Spanish why is it
that throughout the Caribbean native
populations have either disappeared
entirely or exist as just a few people
with mixed ancestry still existing in
islands that are otherwise dominated by
descendants of European and African
colonists Africans who predominantly
came as slaves but it nevertheless
Europeans and Africans kumuda why is
this the pattern we see there and not in
China
why weren't Europeans why weren't
colonial powers just as brutal and just
as effective in wiping out China the
same way they were in South America
Central America North America and you
know various points that map I think
Australia is in other worth mentioning
examples found all around the world and
either totally obliterating indigenous
culture or leaving behind fragments geta
in amis East Oh form
I think another example that would be
even the Philippines the Philippines
even of the people there are still you
know ethnically Filipino the impact of
European colonialism there it's kind of
unbelievable the extent to which they
lost their own language culture religion
histories unbelievable it's their
different different examples on a scale
in terms of the the you know the impacts
the genocide 'el impacts of of European
colonialism I think if we're being
honest and I'm now forty years old I
have decades and decades of reading
political history I think the truth is
simply that Europeans would have done
this and could have done this that
Western powers could have absolutely
decimated China to at least the same
extent that they decimated the
indigenous civilizations of Mexico that
they had enough of a technological
advantage they had enough numbers they
had enough of a profit motive to do so
believe me there was more money to be
made in ransacking China than there was
to be made in ransacking Mexico City
when the Spanish were calling us you
know first arrived in in Mexico
there's absolutely no doubt that they
could have been would have and I think
if we're really being honest with
ourselves and looking back at the
history the only reason this didn't
happen is due to the Geographic
remoteness of China and the fact that
the world was too big and exhausted
these European power
with other attractive places to dominate
and plunder I attended an academic
lecture at Cambridge University England
had a really interesting and important
digression so the woman is an expert in
this kind of history and she just got
into the demographic challenge that
Portugal faced when they were sincerely
trying to conquer domineer and colonize
as much of India as possible and that
was that Portugal did not have enough
population to do this as much as they
wanted to the only barrier they were
carving up colonies in India and they
wanted to do more and they were making a
lot of money doing it and they were
absolutely reliant on recruiting
mercenaries from Africa they would sail
down the coast of Africa and recruit as
many physically large and strong African
men as they could as they went down the
coast and then went around the the Cape
of Good Hope around Africa to get tuned
in then would start PI radically
conquering looting colonizing and
slaving and indeed raping people with
these you know they were led by they
were they were portuguese you know
sailors or didn't want to say they were
portuguese conquistadors but employing
mercenaries they recruited in africa and
one of the most bizarre elements of this
was of course that this is still true
today to a lesser extent but at that
time Africa had amazing linguistic
diversity so as they went down that
coast recruiting soldiers almost no two
of the men would speak the same language
they'd be recruiting Africans but they
be Africans from different ethnic groups
tribal groups different nationalities
speaking very different languages so all
of them would have to learn during the
boat journey
they'd have to learn Portuguese or a
simplified pidgin version of Portuguese
pidgin is a technical term meaning a
simplified version of language and then
those men that developed tremendous
fealty tremendous esprit de corps as
they engage in a life that today is kind
of if you really read honest accounts of
what this was like unbelievable
brutality and bloodletting India South
America
Africa and in terms of the way trade by
sea was drawn onto the lines of a map
these presented such enormous
opportunities for piratical colonial and
genocidal attitudes on the part of
Europeans I think there was absolutely
no reason other than Geographic
remoteness and the fact that Europe had
already invested all of its excess
population in the exploitation of these
other frontiers that is I think the only
reason there is no moral reason there is
no ethical reason why China was treated
as well as it was and why Chinese
nationalism Chinese language and so on
has endured through history as well as
it has that is the incredibly somber
note on which I want to end this video
in Chinese people today present their
history as one of exceptionalism it's a
very strange fact most people talk about
American exceptionalism I think there's
a really deep I don't know there's a
deep subject to be explored in
present-day politics in terms of the
attitude China has towards itself of of
Chinese exceptionalism why is China an
exception to the rule in terms of the
incredibly bleak history of of European
colonialism now why do you Chinese
themselves think that they're an
exception well I think that the Chinese
nationalistic myth here is of the most
dangerous kind because the Chinese do
not recognize the extent to which
they're a positive exception on the
contrary they see their own history and
a self-centered way as one of
humiliation and victimization without
ever once looking across the border to
adjacent countries that are that are
near by to hundreds they even have
borders with countries like Myanmar
obviously India China does Atlanta with
India Nepal the Philippines even if
they're only looking this far and no
further
the Chinese might have a sense of how
different their experience of the last
four hundred years of history is from
these other
and the Chinese today are utterly
lacking an appreciation of how their own
their own history is different from
North America the indigenous people of
South America and of course the people
of Africa these are largely people whom
they regard through a veil of extremely
harsh racism dehumanization and
judgement they don't think that their
own history is comparable of those
peoples history in any way I can say
that the peoples of the world learn a
great great deal by paying close
attention to the history of China and
that China is learning nothing by
ignoring the histories of these other
people around the world I just mentioned
I hope I will do YouTube videos bullets
in future I'm currently reading an
official Chinese government textbook
that's supposedly assigned reading for
everyone in China everyone who goes on
to universities so the higher level high
school students apparently everyone is
given this textbook by the government
showing us the official version of world
history as taught to Chinese students I
hope I can have some some comments on
that but I'd say also I knew
face-to-face one Chinese woman she was a
bit a bit erudite have been interested
in in history and politics interesting
character and she moved from China to
Africa and you know it's a real credit
to her that she really took the time to
speak to local African people and
learned their perspective on history as
a credit to those African people that
they took her aside and told them
because she was a Chinese woman married
to a white man and they really explained
to her that they don't hate her
the way that they hate her husband and
they really share with her their
tremendous sense of hatred and
resentment for how they'd suffered under
European colonialism and how incredibly
negatively they regarded white people in
their country in Africa today this is
you know current ongoing history
regardless of why they were there that
even if they were there on legitimate
business today whatever the reasons were
being in the country the intense legacy
of that historical experience and they
let her know that they don't regard her
that way that they don't blame China
they don't blame
the Chinese people for that experience
and I can say I mean it's an
understatement that was an eye-opening
experience for her because the people of
China today raised as they are with a
nationalistic myth that really does
present China as the center of the
world's history and presents China as
the ultimate victim of European
colonialism they are giving no thought
to the African experience North American
experience South America knows they are
giving no thought to the rest of the
world's perspective on this at all and
so inevitably there's no thought given
to an objective perspective on this
experience at all